>> Jason Lengstorf: We're gonna use
Cloudinary for handling assets on our site
and the reason for that is that
the typical path if you watch the other
Gatsby workshop that I did on Frontend
Masters, we used a plugin called Sharp.
And Sharp will handle everything locally,
it generates all the different assets as
part of the build pipeline and
stores them in your local file system and
there are a couple reasons that
we're not gonna do that this time.
The first one is that Sharp
is really powerful, but
it's also kind of finicky and
if your node version changes or
if your yarn.lock, it's a little bit
out of sync between machines then sharp
will fail with really cryptic errors and
it can be kind of hard to debug.
Especially if you're on a team where lots
of people are gonna be touching it and
they're not necessarily using
exactly the same machine setup.
So we wanna avoid that hassle,
we wanna avoid that confusion.
Another issue that will run into
is that Nullify just introduced
restrictions on the amount of time that
you get for free for build minutes.
So every time that you run a build
on that Nullify, it's going to take
a set amount of time and they track those
bills minutes against your monthly total.
If you exceed that monthly total then you
know they don't take your site down or
anything but you do have to start
paying for building minutes.
And what that means for us is that
anything that we can take out of
that build pipeline without degrading
our sites gives us an advantage
to keep stuff that we're building free,
right?
And for personal projects we don't wanna
have to be shelling out a bunch of cash
for that so Cloudinary has an extremely
generous free tier and when
we use Cloudinary as our asset management
pipeline, we get to do two things.
First, we dropped Sharp out
of the processing pipeline,
which means that we eliminate some cryptic
errors and potential confusion for us and
our team and we eliminate extra
work done during the build process.
Which will speed up our builds and cut
down on the number of build minutes that
we're using through something
like Nullify, which will help us
stay in our free tier and keep things
affordable for us on our projects.
Let's add support for images so,
one of the best things about this drink
is this gorgeous red color, right?
And it comes with an orange peel and It's
a very aesthetically pleasing drink so
we really aren't getting the full effect
on this website when we're just looking at
text, we wanna be able
to look at these images.
So let's get these going and the images
that we have are here, we can see
got these nice looking images and
so let's get these into the site.
To do that, because we don't want to
really elongate the length of our build,
we're gonna use Cloudinary to
handle asset management for us.
So there is a transformer plugin for
Cloudinary that we're going to use and
we will use that by
installing the let's say
yarn workspace.negronis add,
we're gonna add
gatsby-transformer-cloudinary.
And in order to get to the images, we need
to use gatsby-source-filesystem and then,
because we wanna be able to display those
images, we're gonna import Gatsby image
which is a helper component for
a reactor tat will do a lot of
lazy loading and it waits until the image
is in the view port to start loading and
all those nice things to make sure
that we get a very fast performance
with our images without us having
to do a bunch of manual work.
So we'll get those installed and
while we're waiting for
those to install we can jump
into our Gatsby config and
I will configure this, we're going to
first install gatsby-source-filesystem and
for the options,
we're gonna get given a name images.
Again, because this is the site and
not the theme, we can be a little more
like it's our site, we don't have to worry
about incompatibility downstream and
then, the path that we wanna
use is source images and
that’ll give us these images here.
So the next thing that we wanna do is,
we want to use the transformer for
cloudinary and for the options,
it’s going to need out cloudname,
our API key,
an API secret and
where we wanna store things.
So we just choose an upload folder and
I'll just set this to like
frontendmasters workshop.
To get the rest of these, we need to go to
Cloudinary so I'm just gonna jump over to
the cloudinary.com site and
I'm going to log in.
Cloudinary has a really
generous free tier so
it's a really good tool for kinda getting
started with image asset management,
you're gonna be able to go quite
a ways before you hit their caps.
Once you are in your dashboard,
once you're signed up, you'll be at
cloudinary.com/console, I'm gonna go up to
this, the settings cog at the top right.
And then I'm going to go to the Security
tab and scroll all the way to the bottom
and there's a link under Access
keys to generate a new pair.
I've created a couple of these already in
order to avoid showing API tokens that I
would then have to go and validate, I have
a disabled key that I can show instead.
So the API key that we're gonna pull is
this one here and then you get to play
this fun game with Cloudinary API where
you click on this and it becomes visible.
Now this is a disable key so this won't
work but to select it you have to
move off and then kind of drag
over here and then copy it and
then when you go into your actual
files it's gonna have a bunch of
junk on it so just make sure that
you actually only select that text.
That's a very fun UI quirk where because
if you try to actually select it it
will go invisible again.
[LAUGH].
So it's not very fun but anyways,
so you're then going to put
it into a .end.development so
I've got a live API key in there so I'm
not gonna show that but I will show this
example file which is exactly the same
except I've replaced these here.
So the cloud name is gonna match
your cloundinary.com Cloudbucket,
which you can find up here so mine is
jlengstorf so I put in jlengstorf here.
Then for the API key,
that's the one that's always visible and
then the API secret is this one here so
those are the values that you have to set.
Once you've set those values we then need
to pull those in to Gatsby's environment,
Gadsby ships with dotenv already
installed so we can just use it.
So I'm gonna go into the Gatsby config and
up at the top,
I'm going to require dotenv and
then we call the config method and
to follow Gatsby's pattern we're gonna use
dotenv.development instead of
like just a plain .env file.
And to make sure the .env pick set up,
we do .env.process.env.NODE_ENV,
in that way what will happen is
when we're in development mode,
it will pick up this
.env.development file.
And when you're in production mode,
you will have to add the same keys
that are in this .Example, you'll just add
this to whatever your deploy pipeline is.
So if you're using Nullify, you'll only
did declare environment variables to add
them there Travis Jenkins,
whatever you're using, you would just
set those environment variables up so
they're available during the build.
Once we have these,
we can use them, let's see.
Cloud name so Then we can get the API key.
Process.env API_Key.
And then one more for API_SECRET.
Okay.
Which those configured we are able
to actually get files uploaded.
To Cloudinary and we'll be able
to see the result of that in our
GraphQL there.
So let's start this up,
yarn workspace negronis develop.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, and so the way
that that transformer works is that during
the build it will just upload images
from the file system to Cloudinary.
And then it gets back in asset name,
and then based on that asset name,
Cloudinary URLs are, you configure
everything in the URL itself so
we're able to say give it to me with 200,
with 400, with 600,
and that allows us to set up
responsive images with sore sets.
It's probably just easier if
I just show you how it works.
So let's look at the GraphiQL layer and
we can clear this out,
and so we can see now that
we've got all CloudinaryAsset.
And if I go into the nodes, we can see
that we've got fixed and fluid, fixed
width is a Gatsby image Convention for
setting images that never change in width.
So if you have an avatar, for example,
that's always going to be 40 pixels wide,
you would use fixed at 40 pixels wide and
that way the image comes out,
optimized for that width.
If you use fluid, fluid is for images that
will scale depending on the viewport.
So if you're doing like a banner image,
you wanna use fluid because as
the viewport gets wider or narrower,
you only wanna be showing an image that's
big enough for
the current size of the viewport.
You don't wanna have like a 1,600
pixel image squish down to
a 300 pixel viewport on a feature phone,
it's a lot of wasted bandwidth.
So, if we get into these nodes,
let's get into fluid and
let's just take a look at the source.
So, from the image that we uploaded, we
can see here that we've got a whole array
of image asset pass back and
they come in at 200 pixels wide,
461, 646, and 650 because we've
set 650 as our max width.
So, let's just take a look at
what one of these, it looks like.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And this is kind of
where Cloundinary is really fascinating
because you can just control
all of these different things.
So if I set this to 800,
the image will come back much bigger,
if I set it to Like
a different aspect ratio so
let's say I want it to be
an aspect ratio of 16 by 9.
>> Jason Lengstorf: I put that in
the wrong place, let's move it over here,
aspect ratio of 16 by 9.
So we can just add any of these
transformations that we want, and
it will kinda clean that stuff up for
us so
we're able to go through and kinda add
the transformations as we see fit.
And Cloudinary handles that for
us on the fly,
we don't have to manage the, different
asset generation, it just does it for us.
And this has a ton of really
advanced features that I'm not gonna
get into today, I'd encourage you
to go explore the Cloudinary dots.
You can do things like watermark your
images, you can mess with the colors,
you can do SVG tracing, you can find
faces, you can blur out faces actually
really, really powerful stuff,
it's a very cool API.
But once we have this,
once we're able to actually get this,
then we can start using it in our site